Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.Programming is a computer language that contains a set of instructions which can be used to produce various kind of outputs.


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. JDK is composed of:

   Javac/ java compiler: used to compile java source code into java byte code.

   Java Interpreter: JI is used to interpret the .class java files that have been compiled by javac.

   Debugger- used to debug the code

   Javadoc- used to generate documents from source code comments

   Disassembler:  to disassembles one or more class files

   Jar (Java Archive) - used to aggregate many java class files into a single jar files.

   Java Applet Viewer: This is used to view the Java applets

   Java header file generator: generates C and source that are needed to implement native methods.


What is IDE?
A. Integrated development environment mainly used by developers to write or test programs.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, Intellij Idea, NetBeans, Android Studio, jEdit, jGRASP, JSource, JDevelper

Explain the entire java life cycle.

A. There are three steps in java life-cycle: editing the program, compiling the source code, executing the bytecode.
We can use any editor to create source program. This source program gets saved as .java file. Then compiler compiles this .java files into .classfiles. The .classfiles contains the byte code. The file is then loaded into memory by class loader.
JVM reads this bytecode in memory and interprets them into machine code.

what is class?
A. Class is a blueprint or template for objects.

What is object?
A. Object is an instance of a class. Object has states and behaviors.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. Main method is the entry point of a java application.

Why main is static?
A. Static in the main method lets JVM to run the method w/o creating any object of the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Object class is the super class for all java classes.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path is an environment variable that is used to locate JDK binaries to run java program and compile java source file.
Class PATH is also an environment variable but it is used by System or Application ClassLoader  to locate and load the .classfiles.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?

A. Abstract class is a class that contains one or more abstract  or non-abstract methods.Abstract class can never be instantiated.

Interface can have only  abstract methods. Interface cannot provide the implementation of abstract class.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?

A. No but you can create an object in a regular or concrete class.


what is Access Specifier?

Access specifier helps to restrict the scope of a class, constructor , variable , method or data member.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP- stands for Object-Oriented Programming. OOP is a methodology to design a program using classes and objects.

Features:
Abstractions: Hiding  internal implementation details and showing functionality is known as abstraction

Encapsulation- Encapsulation means data hiding. By doing encapsulation data only can be accessed by public methods.

Inheritance: Inheritance can be defined as the process where one class acquires the properties (methods and fields) of another.

Polymorphism: Polymorphism is the ability of an object to take on many forms.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?

A. A java package is a group of similar types of classes, interfaces and sub-packages. The java.lang package is always imported by default.


What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.

A. An application program interface (API) is a set of routines, protocols, and tools for building software applications.

API used:
> java.util.*;
> java.lang.object;

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. Java doesn’t support multiple inheritance. Multiple inheritance means if a class inherits from two or more classes. If the parent classes have same member
then it will be confusion to child class whether to access members from first parent class or second parent classes. To avoid the confusion there is no multiple inheritance concept in java.

What is method overloading and when it happens?

A. If a class has more than one  methods with the same name but different in parameters/ arguments - is called method overloading. Happens at compile time.


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.

A. An Exception is a problem that arises during the execution of a program and disrupts its normal flow. We use Catching exception (try-catch block) method or throw block to handle them.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?

A. Static belongs to the class itself. If we declare a variable, method as static- then they can be accessed from another class without creating an object.


What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?

A. Final is a keyword. If we declare any variable with final keywords then it must be initialized and value cannot be changed after initialization.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Final is a keyword applicable to variable, method or classes.Final variables are nothing but constants. We cannot change the value of a final variable once it is initialized.
Final method cannot be overridden by its subclasses.

Finally: Finally is used after try catch block to cleanup. It will be executed regardless of exception handling or not.


Finalize:Called by the garbage collector on an object when garbage collection determines that there are no more references to the object.


What is a constructor ?

A. A constructor is a block of code similar  to a  method that is used to initialize objects. The constructor is called when an object of a class is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Yes. we can have multiple constructor in class but when we create a parameterized constructor, we need to use default constructor.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. Default constructor

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. Reference variable that refers to the current object

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?

A. super is a key word used for accessing the members of the superclass by the extended class

What is JVM stand for ?
A. JAVA virtual machine.

Is JVM platform independent?

A. Yes
What version of java are you using?

A. java version "12.0.2"

What is JAR stand for ?

A. Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Java Development Kit (JDK) is used for developing Java applications and includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (java), the javac compiler, and thb JAR archivers.
On the other hand, JVM is Java virtual machine that executes bytecode at runtime.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
On the other hand, JVM is Java virtual machine that executes bytecode at runtime.

JRE – Java Runtime Environment is an installation package which provides environment to run the java program in our machine.


What is compile time and run time?
A. The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program. This compilation process is referred to as compile time.

A compiled program can be opened and run by a user. When an application is running, it is called runtime.


What is heap?

A. The heap is the area in memory where objects are stored.

How java manage it's memory?
A. Java use stack and heap to manage its memory. Stack memory store local variables and function and heap memory stores objects.


What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. The String class is an immutable class whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder classes are mutable. StringBuffer methods are synchronized while StringBuilder methods are non-synchronized.

What is Singleton class?

A. Singleton class is a  class that can have only one object at a time

What is Serialization and Deserialization?

A. Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes. Deserialization is just the reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes.

when to use transient variable in java?

A. Transient is a variable modifier used in serialization. At the time of serialization, if we don't want to save value of a particular variable in a file, then we use transient keyword.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. The while loop checks  the condition first, and if the condition is true then, it iterates the loop until the condition turns out to be false.
In do while loop, whatever the condition for loop is system will execute the do statement first and then will execute the while condition

What is Enum?

A. Enum in java is a data type that contains fixed set of constants.

What is Iterator?

A. An iterator is an Interface which is used to traverse through a collection one by one.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?

A. Integer will take more memory.

Why is String Immutable in Java?

A. String is immutable for several reasons, one of the reason is its security purpose. Security parameters are typically represented as String in network connections, database connection urls,usernames/passwords etc. If it were mutable, these parameters could be easily changed.


What is constructor chaining in Java?

A. Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.


The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?

A. The serial collector uses a single thread to perform all garbage collection work and Parallel garbage collector uses multithreaded environment.

What is JIT stands for?

A. Just in time compiler.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?

A. The heap is the area in memory where objects are stored. Garbage collection clears the heap of unused objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?

A.
No, it is not guaranteed process

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?

A. Whenever an object is created, it’s always stored in the Heap space and stack memory contains the reference to it.
Stack memory only contains local primitive variables and reference variables to objects in heap space.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?


what is multithreading in java?

A. Multithreading allows two or more parts of a program to run at the same time for maximum utilization of CPU.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?

A. Synchronization is used when multiple threads are running at the same time, but only one thread is given access to CPU at a time.

What is Framework?

A. Framework is a large body of pre-written code that can be used to add your code to solve problems in a specific domain.

What are the testing Framework available in java?

A. TestNG and jUnit

Difference between jUnit and testNG?

A. Both Testng and Junit are Testing framework used for Unit Testing.
TestNG has all the features of Junit plus some added features including dependency testing, group testing, suit testing.


What are the dependencies for this project?

A. 
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









